Add task page for troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors (#33287)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/migrating-from-dockershim/troubleshooting-cni-plugin-related-errors.md

---
title: Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
content_type: task
reviewers:

> - mikebrow

Author: Updated. Thanks.

weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

To avoid CNI plugin-related errors, verify that you are using or upgrading to a
container runtime that has been tested to work correctly with your version of
Kubernetes.

For example, the following container runtimes have been tested with Kubernetes
v1.24:

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer: ... the network fixes needed have been merged into the containerd [1.6.x branch](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/commits/release/1.6), we held a community meeting Thursday (yesterday) morning and all agreed a service release (1.6.4) is needed and will be provided within days if not today early next week .. testing of what that release will look like can be done against [this commit](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/commit/6eeeaaddca18b0d8c3676e706e95680d01caafee) there may also be one or two more unrelated commits coming in one for a [k8s volume mount relabel issue](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/commit/6eeeaaddca18b0d8c3676e706e95680d01caafee) .. We are just about out of time, but we will do one more release primarily for k8s fixes.

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer: @dims will chat it up to decide if you want to run on a merge commit or wait for the service release tag

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer 2: Correct, I understand that Mike. However, my concern is writing it out before actually testing it would not be right by our audience especially in the context of the release blog since that goes out on the day of the release i.e. May 3rd. I'm just considering rephrasing it to paint a more accurate picture for the release blog. This is a troubleshooting doc and as such, is not a release blocker.

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer 2: Sure, thanks @mikebrow 
FYI : @JamesLaverack , @nate-double-u , @chris-short , @mickeyboxell, @reylejano @natalisucks

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer: @divya-mohan0209 rephrase suggested above.. thx!!

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer 2: Thank you so much!

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Reviewer 2: @rolfedh - please could you make the changes as suggested by @mikebrow ? Thank you so much :)

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Author: @mikebrow  What is the suggestion for line 19?

> * containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later

Author: The status of this comment is "Resolved." @divya-mohan0209 would like to keep it open because she has linked it to the blog.

> * CRI-O 1.24 and later

Reviewer 3: Not sure this z-stream distinction is important in this context but it was called out by @haircommander:
```suggestion
* CRI-O 1.24.0 and later
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> * CRI-O v1.24.0 and later

Reviewer 2: Similar case with this version, as well. We can mention that there are plans around eliminating this. in future versions, but we cannot outright claim to have tested them against v1.24.

Reviewer: fyi.. not sure how you want to word this.. cri-o's versioning is aligned with the version of kubernetes 

cri-o v1.23.x is for kubernetes v1.23.x
cri-o v1.24.x is for kubernetes v1.24.x  

https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o#compatibility-matrix-cri-o--kubernetes

## About the "Incompatible CNI versions" and "Failed to destroy network for sandbox" errors

Service issues exist for pod CNI network setup and tear down in containerd
v1.6.0-v1.6.3 when the CNI plugins have not been upgraded and/or the CNI config

> version is not declared in the CNI config files. These issues are resolved in

Reviewer 2: Similar case, I suggest we do not make the statement of having solved the problem before we actually have an official release. This would be misleading unless there is context I'm missing out on.
```suggestion
version is not declared in the CNI config files. These issues are resolved in
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These issues have been tested, by the containerd and CNI teams, to have been resolved on containerd v1.6.4.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

### Incompatible CNI versions error

If the version of your CNI plugin does not correctly match the plugin version in
the config because the config version is later than the plugin version, the
containerd log will likely show an error message on startup of a pod similar
to:

```
incompatible CNI versions; config is \"1.0.0\", plugin supports [\"0.1.0\" \"0.2.0\" \"0.3.0\" \"0.3.1\" \"0.4.0\"]"
```

To fix this issue, [update your CNI plugins and CNI config files](#updating-your-cni-plugins-and-cni-config-files).

### Failed to destroy network for sandbox error

If the version of the plugin is missing in the CNI plugin config, the pod may
run. However, stopping the pod generates an error similar to:

```
ERRO[2022-04-26T00:43:24.518165483Z] StopPodSandbox for "b" failed
error="failed to destroy network for sandbox \"bbc85f891eaf060c5a879e27bba9b6b06450210161dfdecfbb2732959fb6500a\": invalid version \"\": the version is empty"
```

This error leaves the pod in the not-ready state with a network namespace still
attached. To recover from this problem, [edit the CNI config file](#updating-your-cni-plugins-and-cni-config-files) to add

> the missing version information. Then, the next attempt to stop the pod should

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> be successful, and you can remove the pod.

Author: Removed ", and you can remove the pod."

following upgrade operations:
  - If you're running CNI plugins, upgrade them to the latest version.
  - If you're using non-CNI plugins, replace them with CNI plugins. Use the
  latest version of the plugins.
  - Update the plugin configuration file to specify or match a version of the
  CNI specification that the plugin supports, as shown in the following ["An
  example containerd configuration
  file"](#an-example-containerd-configuration-file) section.
  - For `containerd`, ensure that you have installed the latest version (v1.0.0
  or later) of the CNI loopback plugin.
  - Upgrade node components (for example, the kubelet) to Kubernetes 1.24
  - Upgrade to or install the most current version of the container runtime.
3. Bring the node back into your cluster by restarting your container runtime
and kubelet. Uncordon the node (`kubectl uncordon <nodename>`).

## An example containerd configuration file

The following example shows a configuration for `containerd` runtime v1.6.x,
which supports a recent version of the CNI specification (v1.0.0).

Please see the documentation from your plugin and networking provider for
further instructions on configuring your system.

> On Kubernetes, containerd runtime adds a loopback interface, `lo`, to Pods as a

Author: Updated. Thanks.

---
title: Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
content_type: task
reviewers:
- mikebrow
- divya-mohan0209
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

To avoid CNI plugin-related errors, verify that you are using or upgrading to a
container runtime that has been tested to work correctly with your version of
Kubernetes.

> For example, the following container runtimes have been tested with Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following container runtimes are being prepared for Kubernetes
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

* containerd v1.6.4 and later, v1.5.11 and later
* CRI-O 1.24 and later

## About the "Incompatible CNI versions" and "Failed to destroy network for sandbox" errors

Service issues exist for pod CNI network setup and tear down in containerd
v1.6.0-v1.6.3 when the CNI plugins have not been upgraded and/or the CNI config
version is not declared in the CNI config files. These issues are resolved in
containerd v1.6.4.

With containerd v1.6.0-v1.6.3, if you do not upgrade the CNI plugins and/or
declare the CNI config version, you might encounter the following "Incompatible
CNI versions" or "Failed to destroy network for sandbox" error conditions.

### Incompatible CNI versions error

If the version of your CNI plugin does not correctly match the plugin version in

> the config because the config version is later than the plugin version, the

Author: We use "later" rather than "newer"  when referring to software versions.

> containerd log may/will likely show an error message on startup of a pod similar

Reviewer 2: Using either of the two instead of the two since I don't think using both adds extra context to the sentence.

```suggestion
containerd log will likely show an error message on startup of a pod similar
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

to:

```
incompatible CNI versions; config is \"1.0.0\", plugin supports [\"0.1.0\" \"0.2.0\" \"0.3.0\" \"0.3.1\" \"0.4.0\"]"
```

> Follow the instructions to update your CNI plugins and CNI config files to fix

Author: Updated. Thanks.

this problem.

### Failed to destroy network for sandbox error

If the version of the plugin is missing in the CNI plugin config, the pod may
run. However, when the pod is stopped, an error will be reported similar to:

```
ERRO[2022-04-26T00:43:24.518165483Z] StopPodSandbox for "b" failed
error="failed to destroy network for sandbox \"bbc85f891eaf060c5a879e27bba9b6b06450210161dfdecfbb2732959fb6500a\": invalid version \"\": the version is empty"
```

> This error leaves the pod in the not-ready state with a network namespace still

Reviewer 2: This section is confusing IMO. In the first couple of sentences we mention that "when the pod is stopped". Are we trying to convey that if we attempt to stop the pod, then it goes to the not-ready state instead of stopping when the version of the plugin is missing from the plugin config?

Author: Reworded. Thanks.
